Cambridge Judge Business School Executive Education
CAMBRIDGE ADVANCED
LEADERSHIP PROGRAMME
WELCOME TO CAMBRIDGE 
JUDGE BUSINESS SCHOOL
Thank you for considering the Cambridge Advanced Leadership Programme.
The University of Cambridge is a world renowned locus of learning. We draw upon a 
heritage that spans more than 800 years of knowledge creation, and the establishment 
of novel thinking; thought leadership that has transformed the world and continues to 
impact business and the broader society. 
The world is changing in fundamental ways and at an 
ever increasing pace. Long term strategic plans which 
leaders used in the past are no longer viable. 
The Cambridge Advanced Leadership Programme will 
help you to find the answers to your challenges, craft a 
new direction and provide you with the confidence and 
capabilities to deliver it.
Professor Stelios Kavadias
Professor Stelios Kavadias 
Academic Programme Director 
Cambridge Advanced 
Leadership Programme
Margaret Thatcher Professor of Enterprise Studies in Innovation 
& Growth, Vice-Dean for Faculty, Co-Director of Cambridge Judge 
Entrepreneurship CentreI look forward to you joining us.2
Cambridge Advanced Leadership Programme
The world is changing in fundamental ways and at an 
ever-increasing pace. Technological, geopolitical, economic, 
and societal changes give rise to a volatile and unpredictable 
world. Unexpected events bring new challenges, but also 
open new opportunities. Mitigating the challenges, 
recognising the opportunities and plotting the next steps will 
require thoughtful business leaders that look beyond 
superficial buzzwords and cliché approaches.
Now, more than ever, it is the time to pause, reflect, and invest 
into you and your leadership capabilities. The Cambridge Advanced Leadership Programme (ALP) will prepare you for 
this challenge. Academic thought leaders across disciplines 
will stimulate your thinking alongside peers who will 
concurrently help and challenge you. The Cambridge 
tradition and ethos will inspire your curiosity and creativity in 
addressing difficult organisational problems and 
transformational objectives.
I am confident that you will leave this programme with the 
renewed confidence and energy necessary to help take your 
organisation forward in the right direction.
  If you always do 
what you always did, 
you will always get 
what you always got.
Allison Wheeler-Héau 
Director of Executive Education (Interim)Cambridge Judge Business School
As Dean of a leading business school, I 
realise that there comes a time in the 
professional life of a senior executive 
when it is really valuable to simply step 
away from the treadmill of leading the 
business, for enough time to recharge 
the batteries and re-energise the brain. 
The Cambridge ALP will give you this 
space. Our programme challenges 
executives with stimulating content to 
stretch their thinking, creates a safe 
space to exchange and debate with 
other senior global leaders and Faculty, 
in a city which is so conducive to 
learning and reflection.
Please be prepared to contribute as 
much to the programme as you hope to 
get from it – we are looking to you as 
engaged participants who will challenge 
our Faculty too. In this spirit, we are 
confident that the Cambridge ALP will be 
a watershed moment in your career, and 
we take your experience very seriously. 
You will probably only do one 
programme such as this in your 
professional life - we realise you have a 
choice, and we will do our utmost to rise 
to your expectations.
Professor Mauro F. Guillén 
Professor Gishan 
Dissanaike 
Dean, Cambridge Judge Business 
School (Interim)ABOUT 
CAMBRIDGE 
JUDGE 
BUSINESS 
SCHOOL
Founded in 1990, Cambridge Judge Business 
School is part of the Faculty of Business and 
Management at the University of Cambridge.
The reputation of Cambridge Judge Business School has grown 
rapidly and today it is internationally celebrated as a provider of 
stimulating management education, with a particular emphasis 
on entrepreneurship and innovation management. With a 
world-class faculty of over 80 members and 22 research centres, 
the School is a place where people from many disciplines meet 
and share ideas – policy makers, entrepreneurs, leaders of 
industry, regulators, not for- profit organisations and academics. 
Small class sizes emphasise maximum interaction between faculty 
and participants.
Meeting the challenges of the global 
business landscape from the heart of one 
of the world’s great universities.
One of the main strengths of Cambridge Judge Business School is 
its position at the heart of a vibrant entrepreneurial community – 
the so-called Silicon Fen, or Cambridge Cluster. Cambridge, and 
the area surrounding it is home to a multitude of high-tech 
businesses and the School benefits from this proximity by drawing 
on experienced business founders who can act as role models to 
aspiring entrepreneurs and business leaders.
Including the ALP , our Executive Education portfolio offers over 30 
Open Enrolment programmes in the fundamental business 
management areas:
•  General management 
and Leadership
• Strategy
• Finance
• People and management
• Marketing• Operations management
• Innovation
• Environmental, social and     
governance (ESG)
• Professional service firms.
Executive Education also provide a variety of custom 
programmes designed to help maintain competitive advantage, 
inspire and enable organisations.The world is changing, technology 
advancing and competition intensifying. 
The challenge for the senior executive is to adapt and change 
habits of thought and action. Spend three weeks with 
world-class faculty and world-class participants. The return on that investment for you, those you lead and your 
organisation is beyond measure. This will be intensive, 
challenging and rewarding. The focus is on the future, and 
how to face the global challenges of today.
You will do things differently when you leave.
4
Making 
sense 
of turbulent 
timesBuilding 
organisational 
& personal 
qualitiesLeading 
into  
the future
THREE INTENSIVE WEEKS, 
800 YEARS OF LEARNING
If you choose to join the Cambridge Advanced Leadership Programme (ALP), then you will 
be experiencing a place that has created knowledge for 800 years. It is a place of unique 
charm, quiet beauty and inspiration. Drawing on a wealth of knowledge across science, 
technology, economics, politics, business and management, the ALP provides a breadth of 
perspectives over an intensive three-week period.
One of the necessary future leadership skills will be how to 
respond and adapt to the new realities and maintain 
competitive advantage. Week one of the programme is 
dedicated to achieving competitiveness in turbulent times, 
with sessions on thought-provoking topics including the 
Future of Work, the Circular Economy, Environmental Change 
and Alternative Finance and AI. 
Week two examines various strategic approaches and explores 
how organisations and individuals can build capacity and 
capability through innovation, new business models and 
personal leadership development. The ALP does not provide 
direct answers to specific problems but it helps participants 
identify the key challenges they need to focus on and how to 
craft the right solutions.
Developing your own personal leadership style is the focus of 
the final week. You will now be familiar with new ways of 
thinking but we will also challenge you to think about 
leadership in context, managing the unforeseen, leading 
change and how to create high performing teams.Participants on the ALP benefit from the power of small as 
each cohort is limited to 35. As a result they get to know one 
another extremely well as they work in small groups, 
visit the Cambridge area and take part in different 
learning experiences. 
We believe that the ALP is a transformative experience and 
life-changing journey. It creates thoughtful leaders who 
possess renewed self-confidence to challenge and change 
their organisations for a better future.
Programme overview
This three-week general management and leadership 
programme provides experienced general managers and 
senior executives with the opportunity to pause, reflect 
and gain a fresh perspective in a learning environment second  
to none.
Participants will benefit from discussions with outstanding 
faculty from Cambridge Judge Business School, other faculties 
of the University of Cambridge and from industry. In addition 
they will exchange ideas and solutions with a carefully 
selected peer group, as a member of the programme cohort.Three inter-connected themes come together over three weeksA unique learning environment
9/10 Average 
feedback score27 Nationalities 
represented
Statistics taken from the 2023 Cambridge ALP programmes held.
I really can say I hardly ever have witnessed an 
atmosphere of trust and learning that was as 
intense as we had together as a team and a group. 
I can say I have grown as a human and as a leader 
and it was possible only because of the 
Cambridge ALP.  
Thomas Schmidt  
Senior Vice President  
ABB
June 2017A unique learning environment
9/10
6
PROGRAMME THEMES
Three inter-connected themes are woven throughout the programme, helping 
to connect the discussion and debate so  that you can chart your next strategic 
moves:Making sense of 
turbulent times
How will you lead your company in this 
new environment?
The standard “straight-line” future 
projections and long term strategic 
plans adopted by many organisations 
for past decades have never looked so 
inadequate. The global financial crisis, 
increasing cyber security threats, hostile 
trade wars and economic sanctions are 
all external factors we cannot predict or 
control. But they have the potential to 
bring about rapid and profound social 
and political change.
So “more of the same” is not going to 
work.  We need new ways of thinking 
and a powerful place to start is to look at 
the fundamental drivers that underlie it. 
We propose three:
•   Increasingly rapid economic and 
technological change
•   Globalisation, which has increased 
inter-dependency and sharpened the 
divide between those that are 
world-class competitors and those that 
are not
•  An increasingly complex and inter-
linked global financial system that has 
rendered prevailing ideas about risk 
largely obsolete.
The Cambridge Advanced Leadership 
Programme is designed to help you 
navigate these turbulent times and 
develop new and innovative strategic 
responses. It will also examine how you 
can best manage an increasingly 
broader range of stakeholders to 
achieve long term sustainability for your 
organisation in the face of uncertainty.Building organisational 
and personal capabilities
The increasingly competitive 
environment demands agile and smart 
leadership as disruptors and innovators 
ignore the rule book and reset the 
agenda previously set by established 
competitors. 
Business leaders and their companies 
may not be able to do this alone. Instead 
they may need to establish an 
“ecosystem” of partners around them, 
bound together by shared interest, 
common purpose or complementary 
investment and shared learning. That 
means leading in a networked or matrix 
environment and a different kind of  
skill set.
Equally, being a global leader now 
requires the understanding of specific 
local needs and learning how to 
successfully confront local opponents. 
The global competitive playing field may 
be getting smaller as we are better 
connected, but cultural differences 
remain as people look to re-establish 
their identities and sense of belonging.
Our programme will inspire you to think 
about how scientific and technological 
developments might transform your 
company. We will consider how a 
company can (and should) innovate 
throughout the value chain and assess 
how ready your company is to be such 
an innovator. Some of the questions we 
will ask you to consider are:
•   What kind of innovation should I be 
considering?
•   How do we sustain a creative 
environment that encourages 
innovation and intrapreneurship?
•   How do we manage change 
successfully?
•   Who do our strategic partners 
need to be?Leading into 
the future
There are many styles of leadership 
- some leaders are charismatic, others 
not; some foster decentralisation, others 
seek greater control. When deciding 
how to change the organisation you 
lead, you first have to consider the 
practical steps to take to change 
yourself. 
The Cambridge Advanced Leadership 
Programme will encourage you to 
examine your personal management 
style.
Is it still suited to the organisation and 
the changing environment?
How might it adapt but remain 
authentic to who you are?
Among our discussions during the 
programme about what it takes to move 
from strategy to action, two key aspects 
will be given particular attention. One is 
how, in a difficult economic climate, you 
find innovative ways of motivating 
people and reward them with 
acceptable incentives that will benefit 
both them and fulfil the company’s 
objectives. 
Secondly, reporting systems. Most 
information and reporting systems were 
established in a different business 
period and identified, measured and 
controlled objectives that have since 
become obsolete. Globalisation and 
strategic change require new 
information and reporting tools.PROGRAMME THEMES
Three inter-connected themes are woven throughout the programme, helping to connect the 
discussion and debate so that you can chart your next strategic moves:
 The ALP at Cambridge Judge 
Business School offers a unique immersive 
journey through an ever changing business world, 
whilst providing senior leaders a modern toolkit 
to navigate its challenges!
Toby Marsh 
Chief of Staff, Brewin Dolphin 
November 2021A life-changing journey
8
I particularly liked the way the ALP took a 
holistic view of the business world and 
encouraged us to think deeply about a spectrum 
of issues relating to the global economy and 
sustainability, industry specific, social networking 
and managing people, including oneself.
Susie Cheung  
General Counsel and Company Secretary 
Hong Kong Mortgage Corporation
November 2014
PARTICIPANT BENEFITS
Attending the ALP will provide you with a refreshed leadership mindset – 
the critical ingredient for future success. Having time out from the office and 
away from family commitments helps individuals step back and take stock 
of their professional and personal lives. BENEFITS TO THE ORGANISATION
We recognise that sponsoring individuals to attend the ALP represents a 
significant investment both financially and also in time. Releasing valuable 
people from a busy organisation is not easy and so we know that they will 
need to make a positive impact on returning.
The quality of the presenting faculty was truly 
impressive. Their international 
real-world experience allows them to better 
understand the business challenges we face, seeing 
them through our eyes, then providing relevant and 
thought-provoking insights.
Derek McMillan  
Chief Executive Officer 
Retirement Living Australian Unity
November 2014Immersion in the unique academic environment of Cambridge 
free from the distractions of a buzzing big city will help you 
recharge. Together with conversation and discussion with 
thought-provoking academics from multiple disciplines, you 
will be inspired and challenged at the same time.
The time spent together is long enough (yet shorter than 
many other advanced leadership programmes) to help people 
make friends and colleagues for life, a group who can call on 
each other long after the programme. On completing the Cambridge Advanced Leadership Programme you will be 
eligible to become an associate member of Cambridge  
Judge Business School’s global network of graduates, faculty 
and staff.
Gain a more international perspective - participants and 
faculty come from all over the world sharing different cultural 
experiences and exploring how to operate across geographical 
boundaries.Refreshed executives who come back after the three weeks 
with newly-charged batteries and new aspirations are ready to 
make a difference. They can be powerful agents of change 
within the organisation who can cascade their learning to their 
team and colleagues.
Equally, some participants join the programme at a time of 
transition when they are about to assume new leadership roles 
with broader responsibilities. By attending they can do so with 
new levels of confidence and fresh ideas.
The networking opportunities created by the programme and 
the longer term alumni connections offer the organisation a 
wider resource for executives to draw on when faced with new 
challenges or opportunities.Some of the organisations who have sent 
senior executives on the programme:
• AgDevCo
•  BIMB Investment 
Management
• Citibank
•  Energie Network 
Schweiz
•  Gildemeister 
Group
• Hydrasun
• Ahli Bank• NHS
• Wema Bank Plc
• Marubeni Corporation
• Netflix
•  Nigeria Reinsurance 
Corporation
• Otsuka Pharmaceutical
• SamsungA transformative experience
10
INSPIRATIONAL THINKING 
FROM LEADING ACADEMICS 
AND PRACTITIONERS
We use the unique power of Cambridge to convene a group of high calibre 
individuals who have had first-hand leadership experience at the very highest 
levels of business and government. They have been specifically chosen to represent 
a diverse range of specialist knowledge and experience.
The key faculty and contributors featured here reflect some of the team for the 
forthcoming sessions of the Cambridge ALP but is by no means exhaustive and may 
be subject to change.
Professor Stelios Kavadies serves as the previous Associate 
Dean of Research at Cambridge Judge Business School (CJBS) 
and as the Director of CIBS’ dynamic Entrepreneurship Centre. 
He is an expert on the innovation and growth challenges that 
small and large organisations face, and passionately shares 
these with senior executives on several open and custom 
executive education programmes. He directs the CEO 
Growth Challenge programme offered by CJBS’ 
Entrepreneurship Centre, and has led custom-programmes 
with major corporations such as HSBC, Barclays, Bayer AG 
and Qingdao Bank.
As an expert on innovation he serves as an Associate Editor for 
Management Science’s Entrepreneurship and Innovation 
department, and as the Department Editor for the R&D, New 
Product Development and Project Management department 
of Production and Operations Management Journal. His work on transformative business models featured in Harvard 
Business Review, and Barclays sponsored a research report on 
scale-ups that he co-developed with a team of experts from 
CJBS.  He is often invited as a keynote to leadership events 
for major corporations and has authored award-winning 
case studies.
Prior to coming to the Judge, Stelios held the Steven A. 
Denning chair of Technology and Management at Georgia 
Tech in the USA, where he directed the GE Energy Project 
Leadership Management Programme. He has also been a 
Batten Fellow at the Batten Institute of Innovation and 
Entrepreneurship at the Darden School of Business.
Professor Stelios 
Kavadias 
Margaret Thatcher Professor 
of Enterprise Studies in 
Innovation & Growth
Co-Director of the 
Entrepreneurship CentreIndicative faculty, guest speakers and coaching team12
Professor Shasha Lu
Associate Professor in 
Marketing
Professor Pedro Saffi
Professor of Financial 
EconomicsDr Jeremy Hutchison-
Krupat
Associate Professor in 
Innovation & Operations 
ManagementProfessor David Stillwell
Professor of Computational 
Social Science
Dr Alison Ming 
NERC Senior Research Fellow 
in the Department of Applied 
Mathematics and Theoretical 
Physics, Cambridge UniversityProfessor Matthew Grimes
Professor of Entrepreneurship 
and Sustainable Futures
Professor Christos Genakos
Professor of EconomicsProfessor Peter Williamson
Honorary Professor of 
International ManagementProfessor Danny Ralph
Professor of Operations 
Research
Professor Neil Lawrence 
Deep Mind Professor of 
Machine Learning, 
Department of Computer 
Science and TechnologyProfessor William Hurst
Chong Hua Professor of 
Chinese Development, 
Cambridge University
Professor Thomas Roulet
Professor of Organisational 
Sociology and LeadershipProfessor Alberto Feduzi
Management Practice 
ProfessorProfessor Amanda Prorok
Professor of Collective 
Intelligence and Robotics
Professor Paul Tracey
Professor of Innovation & 
OrganisationProfessor Vincent Mak
Professor of Marketing & 
Decision SciencesJonathan Haslam, CBE
Former Chief Press Secretary 
to Prime Minister John Major
Professor Christopher 
Marquis
Sinyi Professor of Chinese 
ManagementProfessor Andreas Richter
Professor of Organisational 
BehaviourSteve Leonard 
Public Company Director
Professor Andrei Kirilenko
Professor of FinanceDr Lionel Paolella
Associate Professor in 
Strategy & OrganisationSuzanne Weeks 
Visiting Leadership 
Development SpecialistProfessor Jaideep Prabhu
Professor of Marketing
Jawaharlal Nehru Professor of 
Indian Business & Enterprise
THE CAMBRIDGE PHENOMENON
As part of a world-renowned research university, Cambridge Judge Business 
School benefits from a rich and diverse local environment of academia, 
innovation and business.
Cambridge is surrounded by science parks, incubators and innovation centres. 
The Cambridge Cluster or Silicon Fen, is the most successful technology cluster in 
Europe and one of the most successful in the world. Many of these businesses 
have connections to the University of Cambridge. To date, innovators based at 
the University and in the wider local community have developed over 1,600 firms 
employing more than 30,000 people. Collaboration between the University and 
the private sector continues to influence the growth and prosperity of what is 
known as the Cambridge Phenomenon.Participant profile
Energy%
7
Healthcare%
4
Finance%
18
Goverment/ 
Civil Service%
9Education & 
Academia%
8
Manufacturing%
4Pharmaceuticals 
& Biotechnology%
3Not to Profit%
2Engineering%
4
Services%
21Information 
Technology%
3
Others%
1735 
Maximum number of 
programme participants
Industry sectors
Statistics taken from all Cambridge ALP programmes held, 2010-2023.400+
Cambridge ALP alumni 
around the world 
*Others include professional services, medicine, recruitment and media.
19 %
Middle East34 %
Europe
21 %
Australia22 %
Africa
6%
South America7%
North America31 %
Asia14
Nationalities represented 
(2023-2024 cohorts)

BEYOND THE CLASSROOM
To fully immerse participants in some of the big issues, we need to go 
beyond what can be taught effectively in the classroom.
Participants attend a session on Environmental Change at the Scott Polar 
Research Institute and meet some of the leading researchers on climate 
change to think through what it means to lead in a harsh environment, 
followed by a private viewing of the museum. We visit the Cambridge Boat 
House, an iconic building overlooking the River Cam to discuss ‘Things 
Effective Teams Do Differently’ . We believe that inspiring Cambridge 
settings like these help leaders gain a deeper appreciation of the 
capabilities required to drive change.
Time to step back, reflect, and make 
lasting friendships
Believing there is more learning that goes on outside of the 
classroom, we encourage each cohort to spend time together. 
We automatically book each future participant a room in a 
quality Cambridge city centre hotel within walking distance of 
the programme venues and many other local amenities, and 
the entire group stays in the same place.
On most evenings participants go out to dinner together, or 
spend time catching up with necessary reading and project 
work. Free time at weekends provides an opportunity to 
explore Cambridge and absorb its many charms and tranquil 
settings that provide the chance to step back and reflect on 
what really matters, against the backdrop of our unique 800 
years of history.
Discover Cambridge
While in Cambridge for these three weeks, participants can 
make the most of their free time by exploring more of our 
historic colleges. Visit the famous Fitzwilliam Museum, take a 
stroll in the beautiful Botanic Gardens, a leisurely punt on the 
River Cam, or enjoy the many shops, restaurants and bars this 
cosmopolitan city has to offer.
Participants have several free evenings during the week as well 
as some leisure time at weekends to explore Cambridge and 
the surrounding area.Organised activities
Events may include some of the following:
• Punting on the River Cam
• Dinners at historic Cambridge colleges
• Walking tour around the historic city
• Visit to a choir rehearsal at King’s College
• Cycle along the river to Grantchester.
Wellbeing space
The demands of performing at a high level can have a 
detrimental effect on personal wellbeing and relationships 
with colleagues, employees and family.
Your potential as a leader will be greatly enhanced if your mind 
and body are working in harmony and at their peak. The 
Health Space allows participants on the programme to benefit 
from a wellbeing programme designed to provide them with 
the opportunity to take control of their most important assets: 
physical and psychological health. This is an optional part of 
the Cambridge ALP that is highly appreciated by participants.
The things that shape organisations 
are the things they did not 
plan for, they are the things that test the 
leaders. You have to be prepared 
for the world around you to change 
radically, and you can do something 
to prepare yourself for it, that’s what we 
talk about on the programme.
Richard Wilson
Baron Wilson of Dinton Former Head of the Home Civil Service  
Master of Emmanuel College 
Cambridge 2002-12
The things that shape organisations 
are the things they did not plan for, they are the 
things that test the leaders. You have to be 
prepared for the world around you to change 
radically, and you can do something 
to prepare yourself for it, that’s what we talk 
about on the programme.
Richard Wilson
Baron Wilson of Dinton 
 Former Head of the Home Civil Service  
Master of Emmanuel College 
Cambridge 2002-12Programme arrangements
16
TAKE YOUR FIRST 
STEP TOWARDS JOINING 
THE PROGRAMME 
– Apply Now
We are highly selective about who participates in the programme. It is very important 
that participants have the right level of experience to learn from each other and work 
effectively together.
Our stringent selection process, led by the dedicated Programme Director, ensures 
that the objectives and experience of the final group are well matched before 
attending.
Upon receipt of a completed programme application, and if necessary, a telephone 
meeting between the director of the programme and each applicant, a decision will 
be made and communicated within two working days.
Programme dates
The ALP is a three-week programme, the opening session 
takes place on Sunday evening. The programme finishes on 
the Friday lunchtime three weeks later. Classroom sessions are 
scheduled on Saturdays until lunch time. 
Tuition fee
Accommodation is included in the programme fee. It includes 
19 nights accommodation in the centre of Cambridge on a 
room and breakfast basis.  pedagogical materials, morning and 
afternoon refreshments, lunch, two gala dinners at Cambridge 
College venues, and some Cambridge based activities.
 
We encourage early payment of ALP tuition 
fees in order to:
• Confirm a place on the preferred set of dates;
• Activate the pre-programme reading and preparation 
material at least three weeks before the start of the 
programme, in order to allow enough time to prepare.
• Early payment discount. University of Cambridge and Cambridge 
Judge Business School Alumni
Former students and participants can benefit from a 20% 
discount on all Open Programmes.
Reserve a place
The ALP is highly subscribed – we encourage applicants to 
reserve a place which we will hold until the applicant has had 
the time to complete the application form. You can download 
an application form at: www.jbs.cam.ac.uk/alp
Find out more
Please contact Jasmin Abdel Moneim, Business Development 
Director, for an informal discussion to enhance your 
understanding of what the Cambridge ALP has to offer you 
and your organisation.
Jasmin Abdel-Moneim 
Business Development Director, Open Programmes 
Email: alpenquiries@jbs.cam.ac.uk
Alumni status
Upon completing the programme, participants become 
associate members of the Cambridge Judge Business School 
global network of graduates and University of Cambridge 
alumni, faculty and staff, and will also receive a Cambridge 
Judge Business School email address for life.
It is important to introduce variety to the learning days over 
these three weeks. Participants will enjoy lectures, debate and 
exchange, simulations, presentations, role play, coaching, and 
numerous small group work sessions. The programme 
schedule is deliberately varied to ensure every day is 
stimulating and engaging – the pace is fast, intensive and 
diverse.PROGRAMME THEMES
Three inter-connected themes are woven throughout the programme, helping 
to connect the discussion and debate so  that you can chart your next strategic 
moves:
The programme is only as good 
as the quality of its participants. For this reason, 
we take participant selection very seriously to 
ensure the quality of executives who choose to 
join us on the ALP in Cambridge.
Allison Wheeler-Héau
Steven Grundy 
Director of Open Programmes (Interim)
VARIED 
CURRICULUM
It is important to introduce variety to the learning 
days over these three weeks. Participants will enjoy 
lectures, debate and exchange, simulations, 
presentations, role play, coaching, and numerous 
small group work sessions. The programme 
schedule is deliberately varied to ensure every day 
is stimulating and engaging – the pace is fast, 
intensive and diverse.Programme application
18
The ALP has provided me with a 
boost of energy, inspiration and better skills 
to move things forward more effectively 
together with my teams. The discussion and 
the work with experts of their fields and with 
like-minded peers, the well-structured 
programme, and the city and University of 
Cambridge allowed for a unique experience, 
which was worth all the effort I put into it.
Johannes Rosenthal
Managing Director 
Dr. Oetker (UK) 
November 2021
THE POWER 
OF SMALL
When participants join the Cambridge ALP 
they will be in a group of no more than 35 
people. They get to know each other 
extremely well, they have a personal 
relationship with the faculty members who 
are working with them, and we believe that in 
this small group the learning is deeper and 
more intense.Participant perspectives20
Personally, I believe that leaders 
are made, not born. This is why I 
think the ALP can be such a 
great opportunity to reflect, 
exchange ideas and learn about 
innovative practices from around 
the globe.
I felt very privileged and excited when I was 
selected by my organisation to attend the ALP 
at Cambridge Judge Business School. My life 
experience and management experience has 
taught me a great deal, but I was looking 
forward to how the programme would 
broaden my exposure to different 
perspectives, introduce me to new ideas and 
further develop my leadership ability .
In today’s complex, dynamic and highly competitive 
environment, organisations need to innovate continuously to 
survive and prosper. Possessing the leadership capability to 
help others unlock their creativity but also having the confidence to provide or withhold resources and make 
difficult decisions is critical to success. So it was important to 
me that the programme offered a learning experience where 
I could network with a group of peers and benefit from 
insights gained from across different industry sectors.
For me, there were some memorable course components 
that really stood out and I genuinely gained new knowledge 
and insight which I did not have before going on the 
programme. I definitely think the ALP can be a great 
opportunity to reflect, exchange ideas and learn about 
innovative practices from around the globe. The programme 
has the right balance of academic rigour and relevance with 
cutting edge thinking and practical skills which you can 
implement on returning to work, helping you to make a 
lasting positive impact on your organisation.
Shahrazat Binti Haji Ahmad 
Deputy Director General 
Prime Minister’s Department 
Malaysia 
June 2018It is absolutely the most 
amazing refreshing experience I’ve 
ever had so far. 
I am reborn!
In the past 20 years, I have built up several 
companies, helped many others expand their 
businesses across continents, been a board 
member for several Chinese multi-nationals. 
Currently I am the chief representative in 
Europe for ToJoy Shared Holding Group and a 
board member of ToJoy EMEA, the group’s 
European subsidiary.
In other people’s eyes, I might be seen as successful. Deep 
inside me lies a certain sense of insecurity and a lack of 
confidence. “I am lucky” is the most used term for me to 
describe when I achieved something in life, rather than think 
yes, I am good enough. Lack of confidence has been the main 
reason why I often rejected influential and responsible high 
position offers.The ALP journey urged me look deeper and deeper inside 
myself from day 1 throughout the whole period, it is 
absolutely the most amazing refreshing experience I’ve ever 
had so far. Every day I find out something new about myself, 
not only in the classroom, but this happens also while I 
associate and discuss with my peers. I am reborn!
The academic education equipped me with a helicopter view 
on corporate management. I have gained sufficient work and 
management experience over the past 30 years, the ALP 
academic teachings provide me insights from theoretical 
perspective, helped me fully understand the logic behind the 
practices, enriched me with guides for further business 
practices.
I am very happy I survived in this overwhelming Judge 
Business School Advanced Leadership Programme. These 
three weeks have transformed me. I am ready for next step, 
whatever it is.Participant Perspectives
Chunmei Maja Sun 
Chief Representative in Europe 
ToJoyShared Holding Group, 
Executivemember of the Board, ToJoy 
EMEA 
November 2021
22
The programme really 
helped me to look at things 
with fresh eyes and delivered 
some fantastic insights.
As an HR leader, I am used to advising people 
on their career and through my job I was 
aware of the best senior leadership 
programmes out there. I really wanted to gain 
some new insights in general management 
areas beyond my area of expertise and 
understand those challenges from the 
informed perspective of others. In addition to 
my demanding job I am a mother with four 
children, so finding the time was a major 
consideration for me and I felt that the length 
of ALP course was just right .
Taking three weeks out from your daily job is a real privilege, 
but I was fortunate to find a window of time whilst 
transitioning between roles and the opportunity to have 
access to perspectives which are different from those I 
normally encounter was very compelling for me. Our 
business is growing very quickly in an international context 
with a major influx of new offices around the world, so our 
biggest challenge is people, getting them comfortable with the culture of the organisation. The ALP helped me to reflect 
on this and as I was the only HR leader in our cohort, I was 
able to draw on the broader expertise we shared together.
Working closely with other people on the programme, 
learning why they approached the problems in the way they 
did, was really enriching for me and I found these 
conversations continued beyond the classroom so that I 
could find out more about what lay behind their thinking. 
The coaching experience with the executive coach is very 
close to what I do for a living and was actually the biggest 
surprise for me because I got so much out of it. I think that 
was the wow moment, something I did not expect as it came 
from my own discipline and area of expertise. I would do it all 
over again. All of a sudden a mirror is held up in front of you 
and it is a brilliant learning experience which I found very 
powerful.
It is very rare that you have time to switch off from the day to 
day and the historic atmosphere and ideas that you breathe 
in while walking the streets of Cambridge are really inspiring. 
Part of me is very much looking forward to being back there 
and I am fortunate to have been asked to speak at a 
programme running in June.
Virginia Colurcio  
HR Director EMEA 
Netflix, Netherlands 
June 2018The teaching on the ALP does 
not only come from the 
professors. I found that some of 
the best insights came from 
the wealth of global experience 
in the room.
Leading an organisation is one of life’s most 
exhilarating experiences. It can also be one of 
the most gruelling. After five years as a CEO I 
was increasingly conscious that some of my 
go-to ideas and approaches were somehow 
not as successful as they had been earlier in 
my career.
The Cambridge Advanced Leadership Programme (ALP) 
caught my eye immediately. I was drawn to the mix of 
intensive learning on a broad range of topics and the focus 
on organisational strategy development and 
implementation. The good amount of time set aside for 
leadership coaching – two whole days – was another appeal.
Undoubtedly, I was drawn to the lustre of University of 
Cambridge’s reputation. How could I resist a taste of the 
University’s intellectual heritage and architectural beauty? I 
found the professors and their teaching on the ALP 
consistently strong. We heard from experts in a range of fields 
who either expanded our thinking on a global scale or 
focused it more intimately on matters closer to home.Every participant will have their favourite topics and sessions. 
For me it was Professor Mark de Rond dissecting what drives 
successful teams. Mark gave his talk in the trophy room at the 
Cambridge Rowing Club, an historic setting that underlined 
his insights into collaboration and mutual accountability.
The teaching on the ALP does not, however, only come from 
the professors. I found that some of the best insights came 
from the wealth of global experience in the room. The 
Academic Programme Director, Professor Stelios Kavadias, 
talked about his determination to encourage “thoughtful 
leadership” that keeps faith with the intellectual heritage of 
the university.
It is a disarmingly simple phrase, almost a cliché, but the 
concept of thoughtfulness captures the essence of ALP . 
Leadership is the job of charting the right course, simplifying 
complexity, and dealing effectively with uncertainty and risk.
The most singular moment for me came late in the last week. 
We broke into pairs to discuss a disarmingly simple question: 
What makes for a good day at work? I had never thought 
about this before. My answer surprised me, and will be a 
beacon for the next chapter of my career.
Paul Thompson 
CEO & Editor-in-Chief RNZ 
New Zealand 
June 2019Participant Perspectives24
Participant Perspectives
Within weeks of returning 
to work, I was asked to 
take on a new role within 
the organisation…
If I reflect back to the time I enrolled on the 
ALP , I was thinking “what next” .
I did my research and looked at a number of the top business 
schools and the ‘Cambridge package’ resonated best with me. 
I was particularly drawn to the style of learning, the location 
and overall learning environment. The content and structure 
of the programme was also very appealing with topics like 
the future of business, innovation, evolution of business 
models and strategy, adopting new technology, stakeholder 
involvement and evaluating risk when taking the leap into 
new and emerging areas. One challenge for me living in 
Western Australia is it’s a long way away from everywhere – 
it’s not like living in Europe! After spending three weeks with 
your peers you gain valuable insights based on much wider 
business and cultural perspectives and during discussions, 
people approached problems, and possible solutions, from 
such different directions – much more so than your day to 
day work environment can offer. One common factor we all 
shared was leading and managing people. Knowing what to 
do to build strong teams, which challenges to take on, when to push your team to go further or when to pull back is very 
demanding, the ALP provided a fantastic opportunity to talk 
openly with a group of supportive and highly experienced 
senior executives. Having completed the programme I knew I 
felt energised and better equipped to take on any new 
challenge but I did not realise that I would need to use my 
learning and refined skills so quickly. Within weeks of 
returning to work, I was asked to take on a new role within 
the organisation, it was a complete change from asset 
planning and investment, the Corporation asked me to take 
on the challenge of digitising the business.
I think the space and history of Cambridge created the 
opportunity for me to reflect and consider business in a 
broader context with new and different perspectives which 
continue to be invaluable. The pace of change in business 
continues to accelerate, the ALP definitely helped me to be 
prepared for the future and strengthened my confidence that 
I’m ready, for whatever that future looks like, to make a real 
difference to the organisation.
Deanne McDonald 
General Manager Digital Transformation & 
Chief Information Officer  
Water Corporation Australia 
June 2017Paul Guerin 
SVP & Head, Control Processes 
Group & Chief Loan Review Officer 
TD Bank 
North America 
November 2018The ALP enabled me to learn 
from leading Cambridge thinkers 
but also from high calibre 
participants representing different 
countries and industries; 
bringing fresh perspectives to 
common challenges.
I selected Cambridge Judge Business School 
because of its strong reputation, the 
academic content of the programme and the 
unique opportunity to have a leading 
educational experience in a historic city of 
learning and knowledge. 
Diversity is important to me, but my role is very North 
American centric. The ALP enabled me to not only learn from 
leading Cambridge thinkers but also from high-calibre 
participants representing different countries and industries; 
bringing fresh perspectives to common challenges. The 
breadth of the curriculum is a key strength of the programme 
and I think the three-week format offers the right balance 
when managing time away from work and family while 
seeking sufficient time to explore specific topics in-depth, 
and then reflect on your learning. It was intense and 
demanding at times, but there was also downtime and the 
opportunity to enjoy the treasures of the City and the University. Holding the “Developing High Performance 
Teams” session at the Goldie Boat House was a definite 
highlight and I appreciated the programme’s ability to deliver 
some experiential learning by leveraging the inspiring and 
impressive surroundings. Future challenges are probably 
common across many industry sectors now with disruption, 
data management, artificial intelligence, strategic 
partnerships and the ability to attract and retain top talent all 
key issues. It was refreshing to hear how these were being 
tackled in different settings and the ALP definitely 
encouraged me to expand my thinking and to set my own 
leadership development course for the future.
The ALP provided tremendous insights for me both 
professionally and personally. Since returning I have been 
sharing the key lessons of the programme to my colleagues 
and rolling them out over the course of time. The early results 
have been very encouraging with tangible organisational 
benefits including cost savings and improved talent 
management processes.26
Participant Perspectives
The ALP came along at a really 
great time because I could have 
gone in a couple of different 
directions...the coaching that I 
got along the way helped me to 
get clear about what I wanted 
to do next.
Joanne Fox 
Chief Corporate Affairs & People Officer 
National Intermodal 
June 2023
My challenge was that I’d been working for 
some time at executive level and it felt like I 
needed to change things up and really 
interrupt my own thinking. When you’ve 
worked at executive level for a long time, you 
can fall into traps where you think you know 
all the answers. So I wanted to come 
somewhere where I could be challenged, and 
take my career to a different level.
It was a real privilege having the opportunity to meet people 
from different cultural backgrounds, industries, and countries, 
to spend time immersing yourself in learning rather than 
worrying about that next deadline that you’ve got to do in 
the next hour or day or week, and being able to just soak up 
the learning and to take on board some different models and 
toolkits that I could use in the future. The ALP came along at a 
really great time in my career because I could have gone in a 
couple of different directions. The coaching that I got along 
the way helped me to get clear about what I wanted to do next. I’ve now moved completely into a different industry 
sector and my remit has broadened significantly. Moving to a 
completely different sector was something that I feel was 
made more possible through my experience at the ALP 
because it gives you frameworks that you can use in almost 
any situation - it’s been really fantastic in opening up my 
mind, my networks and my career opportunities. 
The ALP gave me the courage to ask for what was going to 
make me feel challenged and satisfied in my career, and it 
definitely encouraged me to expand my thinking and to set 
my own leadership development course for the future.
I am surprised at the number of times I refer back to the 
things that I learnt during the ALP . That might be asking my 
team to think more broadly about something or giving 
people the confidence to get started on something that’s 
complex and uncertain. The thing that really stuck with me, is 
to be conscious of the ecosystem in which we operate, and to 
think about all of the mechanisms and all of the 
dependencies which we need to be aware of to be able to 
achieve the goals that we set.26

Cambridge Judge Business School
Executive Education
University of Cambridge
Trumpington Street
Cambridge CB2 1AG
United Kingdom
www.jbs.cam.ac.uk/executive-education
© JBS Executive Education Limited has 
copyright of all original material contained in 
this brochure (July 2024)
JBS Executive Education Limited is a  
wholly-owned subsidiary of the University  
of Cambridge. JBS Executive Education  
Limited is the limited company designing, 
developing and delivering Executive  
Education from Cambridge Judge Business 
School at the University of Cambridge.
The organisers reserve the right to change any details of the programme without notice. © JBS Executive Education Limited has copyright of all original material contained in this 
brochure. JBS Executive Education Limited is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the University of Cambridge. JBS Executive Education Limited is the limited company designing, developing 
and delivering Executive Education from Cambridge Judge Business School at the University of Cambridge.
